# City News - Local - 2025-05-19

*Generated on 2025-06-04 19:14:59*

## #4 Decades-old temperature records fall in HRM, parts of province ahead of long weekend

**Authors:** Dan Ahlstrand

**Published:** 2025-05-16T00:00:00

**Keywords:** broken, hrm, temperature, record, high, long, weekend, day, halifax, aalders, records, temperatures, forecast, yesterday, record-breaker, weather, fell, reached, 25, set, hit, seasonal, showers, rain, bring, it’ll, wet, warm, regional, municipality, province, fact, allister, 95, 7’s

**Summary:** It was a warm day in Halifax Regional Municipality and across the province yesterday—in fact, it was a record-breaker for some.
Allister Aalders, 95.7’s weather specialist, says several high temperature records fell to yesterday’s heat.
“At Halifax Stanfield, it reached 28.2 C —that broke the record of 25 set back in 1974, and we’ve been keeping records there since 1954,” said Aalders.
This long weekend weather Looking ahead to the Victoria Day long weekend, a cold front is moving through, lowering temperatures to below seasonal.
The long range forecast is showing a very wet and rainy week after the long weekend.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/temperature-records-fall-in-hrm-and-parts-of-nova-scotia-ahead-of-long-weekend/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/temperature-records-fall-in-hrm-and-parts-of-nova-scotia-ahead-of-long-weekend/)

---

## #5 Bluenose Marathon takes over Halifax this weekend

**Authors:** Chris Halef

**Published:** 2025-05-16T00:00:00

**Keywords:** closures, marathon, streets, weekend, halifax, bluenose, street, early, avenue, including, runners, rolling, morning, afternoon, parts, road, free, flooded, returns, busy, regional, municipality, thousands, means, tomorrow, cogswell, ahern, north, park, cunard, city, bell, gottingen, spring, garden

**Summary:** Streets will be flooded with runners this weekend as the Bluenose Marathon returns.
It will be a busy weekend in Halifax Regional Municipality, with thousands of runners on the streets, which means there will be some full and rolling street closures.
Tomorrow, from early morning to early afternoon, full closures will be on parts of Cogswell Street, Ahern Avenue, North Park Street and Cunard Street.
Expect even more closures on Sunday from early morning through the afternoon, including the Macdonald Bridge, Agricola Street and Nantucket Avenue.
Meanwhile, Halifax Transit offers free conventional bus and ferry service for those involved with the marathon, including volunteers with credentials and participants with their race bibs.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/bluenose-marathon-takes-over-halifax-this-weekend/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/bluenose-marathon-takes-over-halifax-this-weekend/)

---

## #7 Firefighter falls 9 feet through floor responding to blaze, union says

**Authors:** Chris Halef

**Published:** 2025-05-15T00:00:00

**Keywords:** firefighter, falls, responding, blaze, feet, herring, cove, member, fell, post, halifax, professional, fighters, union, floor, crews, responded, x, hpff, incident, place, inside, building, fortunately, previously, operated, lower, level, quickly, self-extricate, reorienting, statement, two-alarm, prompted, multiple

**Summary:** The Halifax Professional Fire Fighters union says a member fell nine feet through a floor as crews responded to a fire on Wednesday.
In a post on X, the HPFF said the incident took place inside a building in Herring Cove.
“Fortunately, they had previously operated on the lower level and were able to quickly self-extricate after reorienting themselves,” the statement said.
The two-alarm fire prompted multiple units to respond.
“As the member fell, their partner attempted to grab them, dislodging their mask in the process, in a high heat and smoke-filled environment.” A third firefighter also sustained burn injuries, the post reads, adding that despite these challenges, all members were able to continue working on scene.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/firefighter-falls-nine-feet-through-floor-responding-to-herring-cove-fire-union-says/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/firefighter-falls-nine-feet-through-floor-responding-to-herring-cove-fire-union-says/)

---

## #3 What's open, what's closed in Halifax for Victoria Day

**Authors:** Mark Hodgins

**Published:** 2025-05-16T00:00:00

**Keywords:** grocery, malls, halifax, open, long, weekend, stores, closed, afternoon, marathon, street, summer, temperatures, day, including, recreation, branches, hours, collection, service, transit, free, blue, nose, closures, kick-off, bringing, cool, wet, weather, ideal, multiple, rain, storms, seasonal

**Summary:** The May long weekend is not ideal this year.
Here’s a look at what’s open and closed for the Victoria Day long weekend in the Halifax area.
Businesses Many stores will be open on Monday, May 19, including Halifax-area malls and NSLCs.
Major grocery stores and pharmacies will be open on Monday.
Blue Nose Marathon The Blue Nose Marathon happens in Halifax on Saturday and Sunday.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/whats-open-whats-closed-in-halifax-for-victoria-day/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/whats-open-whats-closed-in-halifax-for-victoria-day/)

---

## #9 Halifax RCMP seeking wanted man from Lake Echo

**Authors:** Dan Ahlstrand

**Published:** 2025-05-15T00:00:00

**Keywords:** public, approach, wanted, man, halifax, regional, detachment, rcmp, hurley, crime, information, tips, public’s, locating, province-wide, arrest, warrant, forty-six-year-old, bruce, william, lake, echo, charges, theft, possession, property, obtained, 6’0, weighing, 175, pounds, brown, hair, blue, eyes

**Summary:** The Halifax Regional Detachment of the RCMP is asking for the public’s help locating a man wanted on a province-wide arrest warrant.
Forty-six-year-old Bruce William Hurley of Lake Echo is wanted on charges of theft and possession of property obtained by crime.
RCMP say several attempts have been made to locate Hurley, and they are now appealing to the public for information.
Anyone with information on his whereabouts is asked to call Halifax Regional Detachment at 902-490-5020.
Anonymous tips can be submitted to Nova Scotia Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS, online at crimestoppers.ns.ca or through the P3 Tips app.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/halifax-rcmp-seeking-wanted-man-from-lake-echo/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/halifax-rcmp-seeking-wanted-man-from-lake-echo/)

---

## #1 Blue-green algae is blooming as summer approaches

**Authors:** Rachel Morgan

**Published:** 2025-05-19T00:00:00

**Keywords:** blooming, summer, approaches, algae, blue-green, water, nova, lakes, reminding, climate, change, pets, province, thick, blooms, environment, municipality, scotia, swimming, freshwater, bodies, scotians, exposure, skin, ingestion, contact, commission, rising, temperatures, increasing, rainfall, individuals, signs, fine, grass

**Summary:** With rising temperatures and increasing rainfall, the province is reminding individuals to know the signs for blue-green algae.
But not all blue-green algae is visible.
The Department of Environment and Climate Change publishes a list of potential blue-green algae bloom sightings.
“Climate change is causing more blue-green algae in our lakes and other freshwater bodies.
If you come into contact with blue-green algae, it is recommended you wash your skin and clothing.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/19/blue-green-algae-is-blooming-as-summer-approaches/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/19/blue-green-algae-is-blooming-as-summer-approaches/)

---

## #2 Lone survivor of Falmouth crash in stable condition; fundraisers set up

**Authors:** Natasha O'Neill

**Published:** 2025-05-16T00:00:00

**Keywords:** lone, falmouth, crash, killed, stable, condition, survivor, saunders, allen, family, fundraiser, nissan, sentra, man, amanda, collision, carrying, 45-year-old, woman, travelling, honda, civic, injuries, unexpected, hospital, halifax, father, community, gofundme, allen’s, gave, parents, randy, colby, two-vehicle

**Summary:** Colby Allen was the only survivor in a two-vehicle collision that claimed the lives of five people last weekend.
The 29-year-old was in the backseat of a Nissan Sentra that was carrying three other people — a 45-year-old woman, a 58-year-old man and a 50-year-old man — travelling down Highway 101 between Hantsport and Falmouth near Windsor, N.S.
Just after 11 p.m. on May 10, a Honda Civic, carrying a 43-year-old man and a 45-year-old woman travelling in the opposite direction of traffic collided with the Nissan Sentra.
Allen was the lone survivor in the collision.
They were in the Nissan Sentra when the crash happened.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/lone-survivor-of-falmouth-crash-in-stable-condition-fundraisers-set-up/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/lone-survivor-of-falmouth-crash-in-stable-condition-fundraisers-set-up/)

---

## #6 Fuel prices spike ahead of Victoria Day weekend in Nova Scotia

**Authors:** Dan Ahlstrand

**Published:** 2025-05-16T00:00:00

**Keywords:** gas, prices, jump, long, weekend, gasoline, cents, diesel, big, fuel, head, victoria, day, nova, scotia, energy, board, weekly, adjustment, raise, price, self-serve, 45, increase, larger, jumping, midnight, 422, months, ago, drivers, paying, 76, 74

**Summary:** A big jump in fuel prices as we head into the Victoria Day long weekend.
The Nova Scotia Energy Board used its weekly adjustment to raise the price of self-serve gasoline by 5.6 cents to $1.45 even.
The increase was larger for diesel, with prices jumping by 9 cents at midnight to $1.422.
Twelve months ago, drivers were paying $1.76 for gasoline and $1.74 for diesel.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/fuel-prices-spike-ahead-of-victoria-day-weekend-in-nova-scotia/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/16/fuel-prices-spike-ahead-of-victoria-day-weekend-in-nova-scotia/)

---

## #10 Summer-like heat hits HRM with record temperatures possible today

**Authors:** Dan Ahlstrand

**Published:** 2025-05-15T00:00:00

**Keywords:** breaking, halifax, temperatures, records, aalders, weather, 27, 15, forecast, high, record, 25, it’s, middle, today, regional, municipality, feel, summer, allister, 95, newsradio, specialist, mercury, soar, expected, reach, possibly, challenging, area, data, environment, canada, stanfield, 1974

**Summary:** It’s only the middle of May, but today in and around Halifax Regional Municipality, it will feel like summer.
Allister Aalders, 95.7 NewsRadio weather specialist, says the mercury will soar Thursday, with temperatures expected to reach 27 C, possibly challenging some weather records in the area.
According to data from Environment Canada, the records for May 15 are: Halifax Stanfield Forecast high: 27 C Record: 25 C (1974) Records kept since: 1953 Shearwater Forecast high: 25 C Record: 20.7 C (2012, 2023) Records kept since: 1940 “As you make your way towards the Atlantic coast, it will be cooler, down to about 15 C,” said Aalders.
Temperatures in the 20s will continue tomorrow before showers move in and things cool off heading into the long weekend.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/summer-like-heat-hits-hrm-with-record-temperatures-possible-today/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/summer-like-heat-hits-hrm-with-record-temperatures-possible-today/)

---

## #8 Halifax teen facing 33 charges to enter plea in youth court

**Authors:** News Staff

**Published:** 2025-05-15T00:00:00

**Keywords:** teen, school, deal, halifax, threats, accused, enter, plea, counts, facing, charges, uttering, court, youth, teenager, 33, including, appearance, video, link, jail, judge, barbara, beach, approved, request, 16-year-old’s, lawyer, boy’s, include, 12, possessing, weapon, dangerous, purpose

**Summary:** A Halifax teenager facing 33 charges including uttering threats has made a brief court appearance through a video link from jail.
Youth court Judge Barbara Beach approved a request from the 16-year-old’s lawyer for the accused to appear on June 5 to enter a plea.
The boy’s charges include 12 counts of possessing a weapon for a dangerous purpose, four counts of uttering threats to cause death or bodily harm, and seven counts of careless use of a firearm.
The youth is also facing two counts of willfully promoting hatred against identifiable groups.
Halifax police said last month they arrested the boy in the early morning of April 24 after they received “credible information” he posed a threat to people at a high school.

**Source:** [https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/halifax-teen-accused-of-threats-gun-possession-to-enter-plea-in-youth-court-june-5/](https://halifax.citynews.ca/2025/05/15/halifax-teen-accused-of-threats-gun-possession-to-enter-plea-in-youth-court-june-5/)

---

